Christmas dinner table
WHAT HAPPENED TO MOM THAT FAMILY CHRISTMAS
I always love my Family’s Christmas Celebration.  Boozy and filled with laughter, we destroy whatever kitchen we are in with flour from Czech-style homemade potato dumplings as a caraway-covered pork shoulder bubbles in the oven and sauerkraut reduces on the stove. Beer-filled pitchers stand ready to be enjoyed by all, with glasses sized to the ages of the drinkers.  Once we kids all owned homes, Mom, cocktail in hand, pronounced in detail that we would celebrate anywhere but in her kitchen.  She had had enough of scraping potato-glued flour off her counters, floors, and walls.

California snow can be as unpredictable as Family holiday dynamics.  Despite past years of sparse snowfall, that year it had snowed enough to muffle Truckee in a thick skid of white.  As we drove down the long driveway to my Sister’s new house, we watched the cousins gadding about on snowmobiles, my Brother-in-Law in the yard tuning the last few machines so that they were ready for upcoming misadventures. Cocktails in hand, my Parents and Sister greeted us from the front porch as we bounded out of the car and unloaded.

The house was stunning, tall windows and steel overlooking a huge snowy meadow.  Heated concrete floors and a massive fireplace cozied the cavernous living room.   A 25-foot tree sat in the corner, spare and lovely.  My Dad (lover of disaster) shared the story of eight men hauling in, then out of what turned out to be a 35-foot tree; after shortening and replacement the tree tumbled down two hours before my Brother-in-Law’s Company party, shattering most of the glass ornaments.  Miraculously, my Sister added, the ornaments most precious to her remained unbroken.

The kitchen bar and counter easily seated twelve, sitting across from the industrial stove and warming drawers ready for the next day’s destruction.  The counter stepped down at the end, where a mix-your-own cocktail set up was ready.  We toasted tree survival and great snow for play, and our gathered family, missing those away that year.  As the afternoon progressed, I noticed that Mom had availed herself heavily at the bar.  While this behavior from Mom happened, it rarely started during daylight hours and was usually in good cheer.  Whomever was in from snow play was regaled by Mom with stories of woe from their over-55 Villa: friendships gone sour over some HOA offense or party not planned or attended properly.  My Sister and I, long calling the Villa crew High School for grown-ups, rolled our eyes and made a pact to keep an eye on Mom’s sippy cup.

Mom started again the next day as Dad covered the Kids’ hands in flour during dumpling making.  This time it was “advice” to her Grandkids.  Mom was maudlin and a little sloppy.  Oh Mom, I thought, don’t scare the kids.  I had let them forge their own relationships with her, and they all fiercely loved their quirky, creative, book and play loving Grandma despite all experiencing an over-drinking adventure at some point.  Mom was crying quietly by the end, and my Sister and I, concerned, decided that we would talk to her in the New Year.

It wasn’t to be.  Mom died of a massive stroke on the eleventh day of that Christmas.  If it was premonition, medication, or fear that had Mom’s alcohol mood swinging so, I’ll never know.  My siblings and I gathered to celebrate Mom’s life, and together with full sippy cups we determined that there was something she did know.

Family Christmas continues, every year a blessing with Dad, made even more poignant as the Kids and cousins grow, marry, and bring significant others.  Mom would have loved this.  I watch myself now, keeping my sippy cups reasonable.  No promises to stay that way once I become a quirky, creative, book and play loving Grandma.

Flowers and hearts
DIFFERENT NOT DEAD: INTIMACY AFTER 60
It came that month just like it always had for the past 35 years- minus pregnancies. And then it never came again. There had been no signs leading up to this, no peri- only meno.. full on menopause. Which is itself a misnomer because there was no pause – just a dead stop. I was 47 and not happy about this. Am I in the minority to say I loved my period? I loved the days leading up to it, the fullness in my otherwise small breasts, the roundness in my face, the lushness of my hair. And then when it came I felt cleansed, full of youth and renewal. I loved the heightened libido that inevitably followed 14 days later, signaling that I was ovulating and that my husband and I would have to take extra precautions because the best lovemaking of the month was assured for those few days.

I won’t bore you with the hot flashes, as many as 100 per day, every 15 minutes, round the clock. The skin that suddenly went dull and sent me scrambling for anti-aging miracle creams at high-end cosmetics counters. Perhaps the cruelest toll it took on me however, was the complete loss of sexual desire. Me! I’d always been the sexy one, the bawdy one, the one who didn’t hold back on giving and getting. All of a sudden sex hurt.

“It hurts. Penetration hurts.” I hung my head in embarrassment as I tried to explain to my doctor. Her internal examination verified what I already knew.

“You’ve lost all lubrication down there,” she said, and then went on to explain about the thinning of the vaginal walls and the heightened sensitivity-not in a good way- to intercourse. This was almost 20 years ago and there were very few options. Estrogen was just too risky and she wouldn’t prescribe it. She said I could go to a specialist who might but honestly, I was scared of the risks too and just too ashamed. As much as I prided myself on being a feminist and a sexual being, I just could not bring myself to share this most intimate of intimacies. This was not discussed freely among even the closest of friends, there was no Google and so, I pretty much gave up. I didn’t have to learn to please my husband ‘in other ways’ because I always had but he missed the intimacy maybe more than I did. Menopause hurt us both.

There have been no miracles since then. There is no viagra for women but other remedies, while not cures, have been invented. My husband and I have found new ways to make love, to be sexual, in our 60’s. It is not so often and there can be long stretches in between. It is not the house-shakin’ or even bed-shakin’ (better bed maybe?) of our early years but it is still deep and intimate and loving, perhaps more loving than it’s ever been.

We’re that cute couple who come in for dinner early and don’t linger too late because we want to be home in time for Jeopardy. You see us walking side by side at the same time every day each of us with our own ear buds inserted. We’re not in a spat.. or maybe we are. But do not dismiss us as an old married couple who left passion behind. It’s still lurking in surprise places and with a wink and a nod it finds us once again.
I have heard the kids are all going Brazilian. When I first heard that term, I loved the exotic sound of it but was soon left mouth agape upon full disclosure of what it truly meant.  Ok this is it for those BA50s like me who weren’t aware of the full meaning —- no pubic hair – fully stripped, bald, clean as a whistle where every single hair is ripped away from front to back except for a neatly trimmed “landing strip” in the front (or no landing strip at all).

I had gone to hear a reading of the Eve Ensler’s Vagina Monologues in 1998 and I remember Marisa Tomei reading about her boyfriend wanting her to be clean – no hair – and I was aghast – I thought it sounded like her boyfriend must be some kind of pedophile– I read recently in Psychology Today that fully shorn pubic areas have subliminally encouraged men to fantasize about being with young girls …So trust me—a Brazilian was not on my “to do” list.

Well, my girlfriend, just 0ver 50 and recently divorced told me her new boyfriend thought it was sexy to have a Brazilian. OMG I thought,  I have walked the nudist beaches and seen body parts I chose to block out – Suffice it to say I know what’s happening to my upper lids – drooping skin and folds – so don’t tell me you’ve gone and fully exposed your southern hemisphere.  Yes she said with a smirk and frankly it was great for US.  Whoah !

Fast forward to the holidays 2011 when I went for my regular eyebrow waxing. I love this aesthetician – she is Brazilian by the way. She is spunky and fun and always full of great stories. A few times a year I get a bikini wax when I am feeling courageous… the “traditional” follow-the-panty-line version.  During a transitional moment — I had just turned 50 — I ventured from just a “clean up” to a landing strip…(my version) just narrowing the hairline …nothing dramatic.  That was the term I used.  Just thought I should “ramp” it up a bit! It was a tad more painful than the usual but made me feel like I was being a bit edgy.  Surprisingly, I kinda liked it.

Yesterday, I went back for the eye brows and well – my usual aesthetician had some extra time.  So I figured, what the heck, it’s 2012, I’m a proud BA50, , let’s do the landing strip again like we did last year. And so she started —- OMG, sweat from my brow, ripping – OUCH – tearing at me again and again. What was I thinking… this was WAY more painful than I remembered….Why? Oh it’s been so long she told me… you haven’t been here in ages. Ok so it’s my fault. Fine. I made jokes, there is real pain in the world- who cares about my temporary discomfort – I give blood, go to the dentist, experienced childbirth (a long time ok but still….), I can do this. Fifteen minutes later she was done.

I looked down and my jaw dropped. I was BALD , except for a very very VERY thin line of hair and then NADA, Nothing!!! Bald ( I said that already).

“What is this?”  I blurted out – “What is this – is this a Brazilian???”

“Yes of course.” – “But I said a Landing Strip!!”

“Oohh but this is a Brazilian Landing strip!”

And she laughed and I did too –out of nervousness.

I wasn’t mad,  but felt slightly alarmed and ridiculous like a 50-year-old wearing hot pants or going pole dancing.  I had gone to the other side. I felt slightly outrageous and mildy racy. My husband was away on a business trip – I called him and told him that I have a strange new coiff and he should hurry home; He had no idea what I was talking about – I didn’t tell him. For now, I am walking around with my secret and am slightly amused, slightly weirded out and curious about what it will be like with him.

I’ll get back to you on that.  Question is — is this another experiment of what can be

MY ELECTRIC BOYFRIEND
I knew things were about to change when I went shopping for CBD cream and came home with a vibrator. This was before hemp became legal in Massachusetts and you had to buy CBD at questionable places, like the “adult shop” about five miles north of Boston. Since my sex life had been evicerated by my husband’s illness, medication and sheer exhaustion, buying a vibrator suddenly seemed like the easiest way to save the one thing I might be able to control in my life.

I put my CBD cream on the counter and with a surge of bravado, whispered to the cashier who had pins and piercings all over her face, colorful tattoos up and down both arms and a name badge that said My name is Chelsea. How can I help you, “Could you show me where the vibrators are?”

I had no idea why I was whispering as there was no one else in the store but me. Perhaps because nice Jewish girls in their fifties didn’t own vibrators? Or visit porn shops. Or did they? I thought about my divorced friend Lisa and how I was surprised and envious when she said, “I’m taking a break from dating, but thank goodness for my electric boyfriend.” Or Leah, who often referred to using “toys” with or without the men she dated.

So I followed Chelsea to the vibrator aisle, skirting passed graphically packaged items called Booty Call Booty Rocket and Beaded Nipple Clamp Action Clips with my eyes half-closed, worried that I would never be able to unsee them. Hundreds of vibrators were on display in lavender, pink and ivory packaging, reminding me of the feminine products section at CVS. I didn’t know where to begin.

“Um, what’s the difference here?” I asked Chelsea. Unexpectedly, she was quite experienced and after a thorough questioning about how I intended to use the device, she picked out a basic vibrator in a soft pink box, with a USB charging cable for $75. A model that she herself enjoyed. I wasn’t sure how I felt about that, but bought it anyway.

At home, I thought about how to best execute sexual healing using my new electric boyfriend. Would it be alone? Could it be with my husband? Or was this a “WTF was I thinking purchase” ? While I was deciding, I stowed the purple plastic bag containing my vibrator into the dark recesses of my closet so no one would find it. Like bad clockwork, Covid 19 also began its insidious creep into the world and very quickly, the idea of sex became exhausting and overwhelming. Afterall, how does one charge a vibrator, much less use one, when living Pandemic-style with your husband and two adult children? ,

But somehow I feel empowered, just knowing it’s there, sealed in its original packaging in the back of my closet. As my first small act in reclaiming a piece of myself in a 29 year marriage that needs work, my electric boyfriend will always represent bravery that I didn’t know I had. With the words “if not now, when?” echoing in my head I’m looking forward to the dreaded New England winter as a time of new beginnings. And to think that it all started with a vibrator.
